EMG signal based research is ongoing for the development of simple, robust, user friendly, efficient interfacing devices/systems for the disabled. The advancement can be observed in the area of robotic devices, prosthesis limb, exoskeleton, wearable computer, I/O for virtual reality games and physical exercise equipment. Additionally, electromyography (EMG) signals can also be applied in the field of human computer interaction (HCI) system. This paper represents the detection of different predefined hand motions (left, right, up and down) using artificial neural network (ANN). A backpropagation (BP) network with Levenberg-Marquardt training algorithm has been utilized for the classification of EMG signals. The conventional and most effective time and time-frequency based feature set is utilized for the training of neural network. The obtained results show that the designed network is able to recognize hand movements with satisfied classification efficiency in average of 88.4%. Furthermore, when the trained network tested on unknown data set, it successfully identify the movement types.. Ahsan, Md. Rezwanul & Ibrahimy, Muhammad & Khalifa, Othman. (2011). Neural Network Classifier for Hand Motion Detection from EMG Signal. 10.1007/978-3-642-21729-6_135. EMG signal based research is ongoing for the development of simple, robust, user friendly, efficient interfacing devices/systems for the disabled. The advancement can be observed in the area of robotic devices, prosthesis limb, exoskeleton, wearable computer, I/O for virtual reality games and physical exercise equipment. Additionally, electromyography (EMG) signals can also be applied in the field of human computer interaction (HCI) system. This paper represents the detection of different predefined hand motions (left, right, up and down) using artificial neural network (ANN). A backpropagation (BP) network with Levenberg-Marquardt training algorithm has been utilized for the classification of EMG signals. The conventional and most effective time and time-frequency based feature set is utilized for the training of neural network. The obtained results show that the designed network is able to recognize hand movements with satisfied classification efficiency in average of 88.4%. Furthermore, when the trained network tested on unknown data set, it successfully identify the movement types.